[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I don't have a lot of
memories of the first couple
of years of my life.
And I know that we lived
in a house in Glendale
when I was born.
I know we moved from that house
to a much larger house in North
Hollywood when I was three.
And most of my early
memories are from that house.
And that was a very nice house.
So already, by the time my
earliest memories are there,
money is starting to
come into the family.
I suspect when I was born,
that was not so much the case.
But my dad was pretty
good at what he did.
And he did make money
starting pretty quickly.
And of course, with every year
that passed, there was more--
brand new cars every year and
Cadillacs and then, soon enough,
Rolls-Royces and live-in help
and live-in maids and put on--
expand the property, build
more rooms, build more
this, mink coats for
my mom, diamonds.
And it was just
growing every year.
And I think for my parents, they
were just thrilled with this.
They were just
tickled pink that they
were becoming affluent and
more and more affluent.
And they were just on a ride.
And as a kid, though, I don't
know that children really
care that much how
wealthy their parents are.
The toys that my parents,
the new car, the Rolls-Royces
didn't mean anything
to me as a little boy.
What I wanted was
time with my dad.
And I didn't have that much.
He was so busy at the company.
He did want me, from my earliest
childhood-- some of my earliest
memories are of him talking
to me about, someday,
this will be yours.
I had sisters, but I
didn't have any brothers.
And he was a
patriarchal guy, kind
of old-fashioned in that way.
He didn't believe that
women should work.
He believed that women should
be married and taken care of
and owned by their
husbands and not
be self-sufficient in any way.
That was just the
thinking of the time.
It's pretty outdated now,
I think, fortunately,
but that's how he believed.
So he never even thought for
a moment of offering either
of my sisters any
role in the company.
My father was born in
Winnipeg, Canada in 1917.
And his parents had emigrated
to Canada from Russia.
They were Jewish people.
Their last name was not Robbins.
It was Rabinowitz and my father
was born Irvine Rabinowitz.
And that was his name until he
was about five, at which point
their family moved
to the States,
moved to Tacoma,
Washington, and changed
their last name to Robbins.
They wanted to assimilate.
They didn't want to
be known as Jews.
And the name Rabinowitz
kind of gave that away.
And they were
wanting to normalize.
They were wanting to actually
shed their Jewish past
to some extent.
I mean, they remained
members of a temple,
but they weren't practicing
Judaism very much.
My father's religion
really was capitalism.
His god was in his wallet.
And he looked to his bank
account for security.
And he was really committed
to making a lot of money.
I think his sense of security
in the world depended on it.
And this has been
true historically
for a lot of Jewish people.
If you go back a ways, you
see the Jewish people were not
allowed to own land.
So the only way they
could retain wealth
was with actual money.
They couldn't have real estate.
They couldn't own property.
And this sort of kept them
in finding their security
in actually having cash.
I don't know exactly how
much that affected my dad.
He fought in World War II.
He was terrified of the Nazis.
He hated them.
He feared them.
He was relieved when the
German army was defeated,
as was probably a lot of
people in the caring world,
that this evil, this
particular manifestation
of this intense evil was gone.
But the potential for evil,
the potential for anti-Semitism
that the Nazis had manifested
still was in the world.
And the potential
for hatred and fear
to run human affairs, to
take over governments,
we'd seen that happen.
And the fear that could
happen again, well, I think it
was very much on his mind.
And so his response was, make
as much money as you can.
And he went about doing
that through manufacturing
and selling ice cream.
Oh, you know, my dad did
not grow up with money.
And he was proud of the
fact that he made a lot.
And he dedicated
himself to that.
And he achieved that.
And he felt good about
himself for that.
And I don't begrudge
him that at all.
I admire that he
achieved what he wanted.
I do think, though,
that there were
inner needs, emotional needs
that he had that never did
get addressed in his life, that
he kept at bay, for the most
part.
And that was his choice.
That's the life he lived.
I don't judge it.
Who am I to judge it?
It wasn't what I wanted
to do, but I built my life
on the experiences that I had.
And I had the privilege
of having a front row
seat to wealth, seeing that
money doesn't buy happiness
no matter how much you have.
Now, we have that phrase,
money can't buy happiness,
and we give it lip service.
But most people, if you look
at their lives and the choices
they make, they think it can.
And it can't.
And I kind of got
to see that early
because if money could
have bought happiness,
my parents would have
been happy people.
And they were not,
not to my eyes.
They were happy with-- they
made the choices they made,
and they were happy with
their lives in that it
fulfilled the needs they were
trying to fulfill with them.
But it wasn't something
that I was called to.
And I'm really glad that I
didn't do the obvious thing
and succumb because
that's what it
would have been for me to the
lure of the almighty dollar.
I went for some other
lure, something much,
to me, much brighter, more
difficult, more meaningful.
Later in my life, I
have met with groups
of people who've come
from different backgrounds
and different
economic backgrounds.
And sometimes, we've
done an exercise
or played a game in which
we ask those people who
had a certain experience
during their childhood
to raise their hand.
And then you can
look around and see
who else had that
experience that you did,
if you're raising your hand.
And one of the questions we ask
is, who was lonely as a child?
And invariably, the hands
go up from the kids,
in general, who came from
more affluent backgrounds.
How many of you were
hungry as a child?
The other hands go up.
Those are the kids who
come from backgrounds where
there wasn't enough money.
But they weren't
lonely, as a rule.
There are exceptions, of
course, but as a rule.
And remarkably,
this is held true.
I've seen this in so
many different groups.
There is something about the way
we use money that isolates us.
And I think people want to
isolate from their own pain
and isolate from
the world's pain.
And that's something I'm
in rebellion against.
I don't think it serves
any of our hearts.
I think it's
actually contributing
to the destruction
of the environment
and to the damaging
of the human spirit
and to a lot of
suffering in the world.
For all I know, if I had
been born when he was,
if I had had the
experiences he had,
I might have done
the same thing.
A lot of people did.
And I felt it was sad that he
couldn't see when he had enough.
There was a day late in his
life when I was talking to him,
and he said to me, you know,
Johnny, I have so much money,
I couldn't spend it all before
I died no matter what I did.
And I said, Dad, that's
been true for 30 years.
And he said, yeah, that's true.
But I'm just realizing it now.
And I did think it
would have been nice
if he'd realized it 30 years
earlier because it was true.
And maybe he could have
said, "I have enough.
I can give.
How do I want to give?"
and made that the
art form, that he
brought that focus
and that tenacity
and that perseverance and
that power that he had.
He used it to build
this ice cream company.
What if that same power had
been used on behalf of healing
in the world?
But that wasn't his way.
He used his money, he used all
of his resources and his powers
to distance himself
from his own feelings,
from anything that was
intimate or that required love.
Because I think that would be
a reward of wealth that would
be worthwhile, you could give.
You know the joy
of service, the joy
of contributing to
other people's lives,
the joy of making a difference
in other people's lives?
That, to me, brings
fulfillment and great joy.
So the person who doesn't
know how to do that
doesn't experience that
joy, that fulfillment.
And that's a loss.
And if they could afford it, and
they don't know how to do it,
and their values are such--
or their emotional background
is such that they're
still kind of stuck
in building the bigger pile
and competing and using money
to make more money and not
looking at the good they
could do, well, we all lose.